This lecture covered the topic of getting robots to communicate, coordinate, and cooperate together to achieve a goal through a sort of intra-net using Graph Neural Networks. Amanda Prorok went into great detail throughout the lecture about the ways in which robots can communicate with one another and how this could be achieved. 
Firstly, for drones, a method known as "Downwash" can be used, whereby a stationary drone is used to monitor the movement of nearby drones to ensure there is as little deviation as possible from the intended route. This is done through measuring the distance/elevation of the monitored drone and comparing it to the intended path. Signals to change course are sent to the monitored drone in the event of deviation. 
Secondly, for a group of robots, be it land-based or aerial, a method of navigating with respect to one another is done using Graph Neural Networks with CBF (Control Barrier Functions). This allows robots to move together but independently of one another, meaning that they can break formation to squeeze through a narrow gap so that everyone achieves their goal, instead of getting bottle-necked. 
Lastly, a system of move-able sensors can be used to allow a robot to navigate complex spaces. Through visual encoding and a decoding sensor on the robot, it can find a path to its goal by using the various sensors as beacons that relay visual information to the sensors in their line of sight. If the goal is behind a corner where the robot can't see it, it can use a nearby sensor to peak around and form a path to its target.
Overall I found this lecture to be very insightful into how a group of robots, or a lone agent, can be programmed to achieve a complex goal like navigating tight spaces. Ms. Prorok did a great job at explaining the complexities of the topic by providing visual reference such as videos and short animations. This really makes me want a little robot of my own! I would recommend this lecture to 1st Semester students who are interested in robotics as it could spark their imagination and push them to work in the robotics field.
