In this lecture, Tristan Miller, an Artificial Intelligence Researcher and Computational Linguist, discussed the ways in which a machine could interpret and rate a humorous piece of text in a way similar to how a human person would. The things that a machine must consider, that seem trivial to humans, is the context in which the joke is found, the way in which it was said (genuine or sarcastic), and how it could be translated from one language to another, while staying 'funny' and suitable to the text or conversation.
The model that Mr. Miller helped work on, was fed jokes that were humourous and not humorous as decided by anonymous reviewers on the internet. It was then asked to rate unreviewed jokes and to give a rating to each joke. The model did this through Bayes' theorem, whereby the probability of a joke being funny was based on the amount of information that is available. As more ratings were fed into the model, the better it was at estimating whether a joke would be considered funny or not.
While this worked well on simple one-liners, it would be inefficient at predicting the funniness of puns, which require more than the context of a sentence to understand its meaning. This is something that Tristan Miller and his team are working on. The problem with this is that the model needs to understand the context of a joke, or conversation, and the relevance of the word replacement in that context. This is difficult to do, as different people have different experiences that influence the puns they use in jokes, so there may be a misunderstanding or confusion between two PEOPLE if one makes a joke that the other doesn't understand. A machine would need to learn a lot of general information about the upbringing of different people from different cultures and countries to not only rate the pun, but to be able to translate it from one language to another, which is another thing that Mr. Miller and his team are working on.
I think that this talk is less suited for 1st Semester students than the others were, as it used a lot of advanced terminology with respect to training machine models, but it was very insightful as it shed light on the struggles that both people and machines can face when trying to entertain someone.
